debounceTime(): The debounceTime() operator takes a pause and waits for another value to come in within the defined timeframe. A good real-world example of this is a search or filter input field. Instead of bombarding your system with an update for every keystroke, a more efficient solution would be waiting until the user stops typing for a specific interval. This waiting can be done by using debounceTime(). You provide debounceTime() with a parameter indicating the milliseconds it should wait (debounceTime(300)) before processing the value; only when no new value is received within the specified timeframe will the value be passed on to the next operator or the subscription block.

Skip(): The skip() operator can skip a fixed number of emissions. Let’s say you have ReplaySubject, and for one of your subscriptions on ReplaySubject, you aren’t interested in the replayed emissions, only in the new emission. In this scenario, you can use the skip() operator and define the number of emissions you want to skip inside the operator: skip(5).

skipUntil(): The skipUntil() operator works a bit like the takeUntil() operator; only it will skip the emissions until the inner Observable of skipUntil() receives a value. You could provide skipUntil() with a Subject class or something like an RxJS timer so that you only take values after a predefined interval has passed: skipUntil(timer(5000)).

find(): The find() operator works similarly to the find method on an array. It will only emit the first value it finds that matches the condition you provide the find() operator with. So, find((item: any) => item.size === 'large') will only pass on the first item through the pipe where the size property is equal to large.

scan(): The scan() operator is comparable to the reduce function on an array. It gives you access to the previous and current value and allows you to emit a new value based on the previous and current value. For example, you can combine the results or take the lowest or highest result of the two: scan((prev, curr) => `${prev} ${curr}`, ''). Here, we combined the previous and current values using the scan() operator.
